+++
title = 'Sweet like sugar water'
date = 2024-08-24T14:20:31-04:00
draft = false
readTime = true
+++
Here I am sitting in a forest inside a botanic garden,  where everything is in bloom. The last of summer lies ahead. Today, the greenhouses were open to the public and all the flower beds seem to glisten, bathing in light and sugar water. Sugar water is Maude Latour's debut album. It occurs to me that late August captures the precise seasonality of the album. And the saturation of it too, or rather its maximalist treatment toward life energy. The language of sugar water is no doubt of cosmic proportions, marking the end of the summer as the end of the world.

'I had a vision of the north star,' is how Cosmic Superstar Girl opens. Fatalistic. Kaleidescopic. These are the ways I read the album and cement it in my brain. There are moments throughout it where she tells me that I'm already dead. So I'm dying, I'm dead, and I'm listening to this song? In a whirlpool, then inside my own head, as Maude implores, "I was hoping, you could save me?" But our minds are sinking ships amongst waves and pathways and scripture and the beds of gleaming flowers. Then before I know it track 12 becomes track 1 reincarnate. So we bloom.

Bloom is the last song on the tracklist. It takes the notion of containing multitudes from trite to downright entracement. Living adjacent to Buddhist thought and heritage, the effect of listening is circular: 'you are a party, you are a wave, you are a magical skateboard rider, you are a rave.' The song is ridiculous although it's not. In death, love is displaced, as matter is transformed and never created nor destroyed. Whether it is the death of a person, relationship, or a time. The love that existed then persists in a new form, and then... you bloom. In the last segment, Maude puts forth this call to action.

For me, the album is as elegant as perfect math found in nature. Like the spirals of golden ratios and the shape of tree leaves, repeating themselves on fractal scales. It's not what I expect of a debut pop record but I'm embracing it. Tough cookie critics have, in the past, challenged Maude's use of a Lorde-like style of singing and lyric writing that sometimes veers closer to clumsiness than its intended saturation ('cause im slipping through the cracks of the floorboards to the apartment below us, yeah'). With her latest entry, she moves beyond these borders and into a league of her own. Some call it existential pop, which I find fitting. Or poptismism. Call a spade a spade, sure, but what I am most drawn to is the experience of song as poems and letters in their rawest honesty. Maude delivers medium-rare in an industry that ocassionally hits well-done in its conventions. So I'm basking in Sugar Water, drenched in its passage of love and time transfigured. (put above - I'm able to feel this because these songs achieve an intimate indulgence, as if I'm penpaling with a stranger I paradoxically trust with my life. Because she's laying it all out to bare as the hope illuminates from pain. )

 Reflecting on her catalog of EPs, Maude insists that the challenge of curating a longer body of work is a rewarding one. Cohesion toward a vision is certainly a throughline in my experience of the album. That vision is something of a divinity. She divines the nature of love and loss- 'the difference is in the letters and the drugs you take.'